Hi there. This is going to be a
quick look at how you compile programs using
GCC. For our class CS107, we are mainly
going to use make files which means that
we'll, a lot of this, what I'm gonna
talk about right now is going to be
hidden from you. But if you ever want
to compile a program on your own, you
should know how to do this. We are
going to be using the GCC which stands
for the GNU Compiler Collection, which is the
compiler that we use for the class and
it compiles our code, it assembles our code,
and it creates machine code, and it links
our code, it does a whole bunch of
things. It is a very powerful compiler And,
we are going to use it, like I
said, mainly through make files, but if you
want to actually, compile a program using GCC,
it's pretty simple. I have a little hello
world program, called hello dot c. If I
type g c c hello dot c then
enter, it compiles my program. And you would
think that maybe it would put the output
file in something called hello or something like
that, but nope. It puts the file in
a file called a dot out a dot
out. Now if we try to type a
dot out by the way, it will say
command not found even though if we look
there is an a dot out file there.
So what's the story with that? Well, when
you run a file you have to tell
it what folder it's in unless it happens
to be in your path which is another
topic altogether. But basically you run the program
by saying dot slash which says in the
current directory run a dot out and it
will say hello world. So that's the the
very basic, way to run g c c
and if you always want your output files
to called a dot out, that's how you
do it. But, of course, you can you
can tell it to put your, file in
a different name. You can actually put the
the program in different name. We can type
gcc hello dot c dash o hello and
it will put the file in, put the
program in a file called hello. Great. You
have to be very careful with this dash
o. If you typed the following, we said
g c c hello dot c dash o
hello dot c. A lot of people do
that just because they're not necessarily thinking about
it. What happens is it compiles your program
and then it sets everything up and then
it writes it into the file called hello
dot c which used to contain your program
text and now contains a binary file that
you cannot go back to your text from.
So for instance, let me make a copy
here, copy hello dot c to hello dot
backup and let's try this, gcc hello dot
c dash oh hello dot c and it
goes oh sure and then you go dot
slash hello dot c you go oh it's
a binary file and if we look at
it hello dot if we go let's go
change our program hello dot c it ends
up as this binary garbage that we can't
get through and we have no way to
get back to our original program. So that's
bad news. Okay. So let's move hello back
to hello c to get our backup and
we're gonna do that and that's that. Now
GCC comes with plenty of flags, many many
many types of flags And by the way,
it will tell you if you have syntax
errors. So let's go introduce a syntax error
in here. Let's say we forget the semicolon
at the end of this line, something like
that. And if we do gcc hello. C,
it will say, oh, guess what, in function
main we had an error, we forgot a
semicolon. It says there expected semicolon before the
return zero and we go back and we
fix it. And this does not create an
executable. If it doesn't know how to compile
it, it won't create the executable. If you
get an error and there is still an
executable and you say, hey, wait a minute,
it does work. It's the old executable, not
your new one. So if you get errors,
you'd know that you did not produce a,
did not produce the correct, an actual output
file. Now you could get warnings and no
errors and it will produce a file but
remember in CS107 we should try to compile
our code with no warnings. So that's that,
let's go fix it. Go back up and
we add that and then we compile it
again, there we go. Now it's compiled just
fine. Now what other flags are there? What
other options are there? Well, the ones that
we're gonna use for this class are gonna
be the following dash g and og basically
mean make your program such that the debugger
can run it and give you as much
information as possible. So those are the big
things. The other one that we're gonna do
is going to be dash t d equals
gnu 99 which means, there's a particular flavor
of c that we're going to be using
in the class and, it's called the, c
99 and the gnu flavor of c 99
is the one we're gonna use. Standard that
that allows you to do things like put
define integers inside your for loop expression and
so forth. So we're gonna use that. And
then hello dot c dash o hello and
there you go. Okay. So now it, that
compiled it just fine. So there's tons of
different flags you can use. We have plenty
in the make file, but, this is how
you run GCC on your own if you
just want to quickly compile a file. Thanks.